 

CITY OF SAN LEANDRO 

LIBRARY-HISTORICAL COMMISSION 

TUESDAY, JULY 21, 2020 – 7:00 P.M. 

REGULAR MEETING 

 
 
 

PRESENT:  Chair Viveros-Walton,, J. Heystek, A. Lum, D. Prola, Library Services Manager B. 
Sherwood and Recorder Y. Carrasco 
 
ABSENT: I. Polvorosa,   
 
GUESTS: None 
 
MOMENT OF SILENCE IN MEMORY OF LYDIA RODRIGUEZ 
 
APPROVAL OF AGENDA: It was MSC (Heystek/Lum) to approve the July 21, 2020 agenda.   
 
APPROVAL OF MINUTES. It was MSC (Heystek/Lum) to approve the minutes of the January 21, 
2020. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENTS:  None.   
 
CORRESPONDENCE: None 
 
UNFINISHED BUSINESS:  Chair Viveros-Walton requested status update on fine free library plan.  B. 
Sherwood informed the Commission the next step is for the item to be presented to the Council at a future 
September City Council meeting.  
 
Commission Heystek requested the status of the youth representative to the Library-Historical 
Commission.  B. Sherwood will check with T. Mallon to provide update at future meeting. 
 
Chair Viveros-Walton will reach out to City Councilmembers for District 2 and 5 regarding the vacant 
seats on the Library-Historical Commission. 
 
NEW BUSINESS:  
 

A.  Library Updates During COVID:  

B. Sherwood provided update and overview of on-line programs and services that the has library 
implemented since sheltering in place began.  All information and links to the programs and 
services can be found on the Library’s webpage. B. Sherwood provided current status of staffing 
at the library and library facilities. B. Sherwood informed the Commission that the City hired an 
industrial hygienist to help departments understand what needs to be done to clean and disinfect 
areas prior to re-opening of facilities.  The company provided the City with a detailed report of 
safe work practices and documents for City departments and those specific to the library.  B. 
Sherwood also provided information regarding contactless curbside pick-up of library materials 
currently being offered and the method of quarantining materials for safety. 
 
Commissioner Heystek provided her feedback regarding curbside pick-up experiences 
and confusion regarding returning materials to San Leandro library.  B. Sherwood will 
review practice being used and see what should be done to clear up any confusion and 
refine processes.  Commissioner Lum asked if curbside will be available at Manor 
Branch.  B. Sherwood said the curbside may expand to Manor at a future date after 

 

- 1 - 

 

 

refining the process at the Main Library first.  B. Sherwood said staff appreciates the 
feedback regarding the curbside pick-up process and services. 
 

B.  Library RFID project: 

B. Sherwood informed the Commission that the RFID project was on the July 20, 2020 
City Council consent calendar and the Council approved and awarded the contract.  The 
next steps are for the contract to move through the final steps of the approval process.  
 

C.  Video Streaming Update:  

B. Sherwood informed the Commission that the cost of the video live streaming is quite 
expensive and it cost prohibitive for the library to add this service at this time. 

 

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY: None 
 
REPORT OF CHAIR: None 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: None 
 
COMMISSIONER COMMENTS: 
 
Commissioner Lum attended the Leadership San Leandro graduation that took place in the Library’s 
parking lot due to COVID.  Commissioner Lum provided an update on her Little Free Library and how it 
has been regularly updated due to the shelter in place. 
 
Commission Heystek also provided an update on her Little Free Library.  Commissioner Heystek’s 
daughters have completed the summer reading program and shared how much she has appreciated the 
availability of library programs and the curbside pick-up.  
 
Chair Viveros-Walton spoke about her experiences of working with Recreation and Human Services 
Supervisor Lydia Rodriguez and shared the many City programs, activities and events Lydia was a part 
of.   
 
ADJOURNMENT: 
 
It was MSC (Heystek/Prola) to adjourn the meeting at 7:52 p.m. in memory and honor of Lydia 
Rodriguez 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Theresa Mallon 
Library Director 
 
Yolanda Carrasco 
Recorder 

 

- 2 - 

