City and County of San Francisco

Meeting Agenda

City Hall

1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place 
San Francisco, CA  94102-4689

Joint City, School District, and City College Select Committee

Supervisors: Matt Haney, Sandra Lee Fewer, Gordon Mar(Alt); Commissioners: Faauuga Moliga, Alison M. Collins, 

Stevon Cook (Alt); Trustees: Alex Randolph, Shanell Williams, Thea Selby(Alt)

Clerk: Erica Major (415) 554-4441

Friday, October 9, 2020

10:00 AM

WATCH SF Cable Channel 26, 78 or 99 (depending on provider)

WATCH www.sfgovtv.org

PUBLIC COMMENT CALL-IN 

(415) 655-0001 / Meeting ID: 146 032 3750

Regular Meeting

Remote Access to Information and Participation

In accordance with Governor Newsom’s Executive Order No. N-33-20 declaring a State 
of Emergency regarding the COVID-19 outbreak and Mayor London N. Breed’s 
Proclamation declaring a Local Emergency issued on February 25, 2020, including the 
guidance for gatherings issued by the San Francisco Department of Public Health 
Officer, aggressive directives were issued to reduce the spread of COVID-19.  On 
March 17, 2020, the Board of Supervisors authorized their Board and Committee 
meetings to convene remotely (via Microsoft Teams) and will allow remote public 
comment via teleconference.  Visit the SFGovTV website at (www.sfgovtv.org) to stream 
the live meetings, or to watch meetings on demand.  Members of the public are 
encouraged to participate remotely via detailed instructions on participating via 
teleconference available at: https://sfbos.org/remote-meeting-call.  

Members of the public may participate by phone or may submit their comments by email 
to:  Erica.Major@sfgov.org; all comments received will be made a part of the official 
record.  Regularly scheduled Land Use and Transportation Committee Meetings begin 
at 1:30 p.m. every Monday of each month. Committee agendas and their associated 
documents are available at https://sfbos.org/committees.  

PUBLIC COMMENT CALL IN
(415) 655-0001 / Meeting ID: 146 032 3750

As the COVID-19 disease progresses, please visit the Board’s website (www.sfbos.org) 
regularly to be updated on the current situation as it affects the legislative process.  For 
more information contact Assistant Clerk Erica Major at (415) 554-4441.

ROLL CALL AND ANNOUNCEMENTS

AGENDA CHANGES

City and County of San Francisco

Page 1 

Printed at  8:28 pm on 9/30/20

Joint City, School District, and City College Select 
Committee

Meeting Agenda

October 9, 2020

REGULAR AGENDA

1.

200412

[Hearing - Impacts of COVID-19 on San Francisco Unified School District 
and City College of San Francisco]
Sponsor: Haney
Hearing regarding how COVID-19 has impacted the schedules, policies, and the 
provision of services for San Francisco Unified School District (SFUSD) and City 
College of San Francisco (CCSF); the approach SFUSD and CCSF are exercising to 
protect both students and staff during the pandemic; how schools are continuing to 
serve students and families, especially those that are most marginalized; what plans are 
being made to ensure ongoing educational goals are met; how the City can best support 
the schools and what resources are required to ensure that they are able to succeed in 
their vital role as educational institutions; and requesting SFUSD and CCSF to report. 

4/21/20; RECEIVED AND ASSIGNED to the Joint City, School District, and City College Select Committee.

4/29/20; REFERRED TO DEPARTMENT.

6/12/20; CONTINUED TO CALL OF THE CHAIR.

7/24/20; CONTINUED TO CALL OF THE CHAIR.

8/14/20; CONTINUED TO CALL OF THE CHAIR.

8/28/20; CONTINUED TO CALL OF THE CHAIR.

9/25/20; CONTINUED TO CALL OF THE CHAIR.

ADJOURNMENT

City and County of San Francisco

Page 2 

Printed at  8:28 pm on 9/30/20

Joint City, School District, and City College Select 
Committee

Meeting Agenda

October 9, 2020

Agenda Item Information

Each item on the Consent or Regular agenda may include the following documents: 
     1) Legislation
     2) Budget and Legislative Analyst report 
     3) Department or Agency cover letter and/or report
     4) Public correspondence
These items will be available for review at City Hall, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place, Room 244, Reception Desk.

The Board of Supervisors is the legislative body of the City and County of San Francisco. The Board has several standing 
committees where ordinances and resolutions are the subject of hearings at which members of the public are urged to testify. 
The full Board does not hold a second public hearing on measures which have been heard in committee.

Meeting Procedures

Board procedures do not permit: 1) persons in the audience to vocally express support or opposition to statements by 
Supervisors or by other persons testifying; 2) ringing and use of cell phones, pagers, and similar sound-producing electronic 
devices; 3) bringing in or displaying signs in the meeting room; and 4) standing in the meeting room.

Each member of the public will be allotted the same maximum number of minutes to speak as set by the President or Chair 
at the beginning of each item or public comment, excluding City representatives, except that public speakers using 
interpretation assistance will be allowed to testify for twice the amount of the public testimony time limit. If simultaneous 
interpretation services are used, speakers will be governed by the public testimony time limit applied to speakers not 
requesting interpretation assistance. Members of the public who want a document displayed should provide in advance of 
the meeting to the Clerk of the Board (bos.legislation@sfgov.org), clearly state such during testimony, and subsequently 
request the document be removed when they want the screen to return to live coverage of the meeting.

IMPORTANT INFORMATION: The public is encouraged to testify at Committee meetings. Persons unable to attend the 
meeting may submit to the City, by the time the proceedings begin, written comments regarding the agenda items. These 
comments will be made a part of the official public record and shall be brought to the attention of the Board of Supervisors. 
Written communications expected to be made a part of the official file should be submitted to the Clerk of the Board or 
Clerk of a Committee: 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place, Room 244, San Francisco, CA 94102. Communications which are 
not received prior to the hearing may be delivered to the Clerk of the Board or Clerk of the Committee at the hearing and 
you are encouraged to bring enough copies for distribution to all of its members.

COPYRIGHT: All system content that is broadcasted live during public proceedings is secured by High-bandwidth Digital 
Content Protection (HDCP), which prevents copyrighted or encrypted content from being displayed or transmitted through 
unauthorized devices. Members of the public who wish to utilize chamber digital, audio and visual technology may not 
display copyrighted or encrypted content during public proceedings.

AGENDA PACKET: Available on the internet at http://www.sfbos.org/meetings. Meetings are cablecast on SFGovTV, the 
Government Channel 26. For DVD copies and scheduling call (415) 554-4188.

LANGUAGE INTERPRETERS: Language services are available in Spanish, Chinese and Filipino at all regular and special 
Board and Committee meetings if made at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting to help ensure availability. For more 
information or to request services: Contact Wilson Ng or Arthur Khoo at (415) 554-5184. 

所有常規及特別市參事委員會會議（Board meetings）除委員會會議（Committee meetings）將予以提供西班牙
文,菲律賓文,及中文的語言服務,但須在會議前最少48小時作出請求,旨在確保服務屆時可予以提供。更多資訊或
請求有關服務， 請致電 (415) 554-7719聯絡Linda Wong.

 AVISO EN ESPAÑOL: Los servicios de idiomas están disponibles en español, chino, y filipino en todas las reuniones 
regulares y reuniones especiales de la Junta, de los Comités, si se solicita por lo menos 48 horas antes de la reunión para 
ayudar a garantizar su disponibilidad. Para más información o solicitar servicios, por favor contactar a (415) 554-5184. 
 
PAUNAWA: Mayroong serbisyong pang-wika sa Espanyol, Tsino at Pilipino para sa lahat ng mga regular at espesyal na 
pagpupulong ng Board, at Komite ng Board. Sa kasalukuyan, mayroong serbisyo sa wikang Pilipino na maaaring hilingin, 
48 oras (o mas maaga) bago ng pagpupulong upang matiyak na matutugunan ang inyong kahilingan. Para sa karagdagang 
impormasyon o para humiling ng serbisyo pang-wika, tawagan lamang ang (415) 554-5184.

City and County of San Francisco

Page 3 

Printed at  8:28 pm on 9/30/20

Joint City, School District, and City College Select 
Committee

Meeting Agenda

October 9, 2020

Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)

The ADA is a civil rights law that protects people with different types of disabilities from discrimination in all aspects of 
social life. More specifically, Title II of the ADA requires that all programs offered through the state and local government 
such as the City and County of San Francisco must be accessible and usable to people with disabilities. The ADA and City 
policy require that people with disabilities have equal access to all City services, activities, and benefits. People with 
disabilities must have an equal opportunity to participate in the programs and services offered through the City and County 
of San Francisco. If you believe your rights under the ADA are violated, contact the ADA Coordinator.

Ordinance 90-10 added Section 2A.22.3 to the Administrative Code, which adopted a Citywide Americans with Disabilities 
Act Reasonable Modification Policy that requires City departments to: (1) provide notice to the public of the right to request 
reasonable modification; (2) respond promptly to such requests; (3) provide appropriate auxiliary aids and services to people 
with disabilities to ensure effective communication; and (4) train staff to respond to requests from the public for reasonable 
modification, and that requires the Mayor's Office on Disability to provide technical assistance to City departments 
responding to requests from the public for reasonable modifications.

The Board of Supervisors and Office of the Clerk of the Board support the Mayor’s Office on Disability to help make San 
Francisco a city where all people enjoy equal rights, equal opportunity, and freedom from illegal discrimination under 
disability rights laws.

Meetings are real-time captioned and are cablecast open-captioned on SFGovTV, the Government Channel 26. Board and 
Committee meeting agendas and minutes are available on the Board’s website (www.sfbos.org) and adhere to web 
development guidelines based upon the Federal Access Board’s Section 508 Guidelines. To request sign language 
interpreters, readers, large print agendas or other accommodations, please contact (415) 554-5184 or (415) 554-5227 (TTY). 
Requests made at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting will help to ensure availability. If further assistance is needed, 
please contact Wilson Ng at (415) 554-5184 (wilson.l.ng@sfgov.org).

Know Your Rights Under The Sunshine Ordinance

Government's duty is to serve the public, reaching its decision in full view of the public. Commissions, boards, councils, and 
other agencies of the City and County exist to conduct the people's business. This ordinance assures that deliberations are 
conducted before the people and that City operations are open to the people's review. For information on your rights under 
the Sunshine Ordinance (San Francisco Administrative Code, Chapter 67) or to report a violation of the ordinance, contact 
by mail Sunshine Ordinance Task Force, 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place, Room 244, San Francisco CA 94102; phone at 
(415) 554-7724; fax at (415) 554-5163; or by email at sotf@sfgov.org. Citizens may obtain a free company of the Sunshine 
Ordinance by printing the San Francisco Administrative Code, Chapter 67, on the Internet at http://www.sfbos.org/sunshine.

Ethics Requirements

Individuals and entities that influence or attempt to influence local legislative or administrative action may be required by 
the San Francisco Lobbyist Ordinance [SF Campaign & Governmental Conduct Code, Section 2.100] to register and report 
lobbying activity. For more information about the Lobbyist Ordinance, please contact the San Francisco Ethics Commission 
at 25 Van Ness Avenue, Suite 220, San Francisco, CA 94102; telephone (415) 252-3100; fax (415) 252-3112; web site 
http://www.sfgov.org/ethics.

Under Campaign and Governmental Conduct Code, Section 1.127, no person or entity with a financial interest in a land use 
matter pending before the Board of Appeals, Board of Supervisors, Building Inspection Commission, Commission on 
Community Investment and Infrastructure, Historic Preservation Commission, Planning Commission, Port Commission, or 
the Treasure Island Development Authority Board of Directors, may make a campaign contribution to a member of the 
Board of Supervisors, the Mayor, the City Attorney, or a candidate for any of those offices, from the date the land use 
matter commenced until 12 months after the board or commission has made a final decision, or any appeal to another City 
agency from that decision has been resolved. For more information about this restriction, visit sfethics.org.

City and County of San Francisco

Page 4 

Printed at  8:28 pm on 9/30/20

